docs: add custom domain guide #143 (#155)
cloudinary-community/svelte-cloudinary: packages/docs/src/content/docs/guides/custom-domain.mdx

---
title: "Adding a Custom Domain"
---

Enhance the delivery of your media assets by integrating svelte-cloudinary with a [private CDN and/or custom domain](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/advanced_url_delivery_options#private_cdns_and_custom_delivery_hostnames_cnames).  

:::note  
**Private CDN** and **Custom Domain** features are available exclusively on [Cloudinary's Advanced plan](https://cloudinary.com/pricing).  
:::  

## Step-by-Step Configuration

### 1. Install Dependencies

Ensure you have **svelte-cloudinary** installed in your project:

```bash
npm install svelte-cloudinary
```

### 2. Set Up Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in your project root (if it doesn't exist already) and add the following variables:

```bash
VITE_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME="your_cloud_name"  
VITE_CLOUDINARY_PRIVATE_CDN="true"  
VITE_CLOUDINARY_SECURE_DISTRIBUTION="your-custom-domain.com"  
```

> Replace your_cloud_name with your actual Cloudinary cloud name and your-custom-domain.com with your custom domain. Read more about configuring svelte-cloudinary here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace your_cloud_name with your actual Cloudinary cloud name and your-custom-domain.com with your custom domain. Read more about [configuring svelte-cloudinary here](https://svelte.cloudinary.dev/config).
```

:::caution
Never commit your `.env` file to version control. Add it to your `.gitignore` file to keep sensitive information secure.
:::

> 
> ### 3. Configure Cloudinary
> 
> Update your Cloudinary configuration to use these environment variables:
> 
> ```javascript
> import { configureCloudinary } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
> 
> export function setupCloudinary() {
>   configureCloudinary({
>     cloudName: import.meta.env.VITE_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
>     privateCdn: import.meta.env.VITE_CLOUDINARY_PRIVATE_CDN === 'true',
>     secureDistribution: import.meta.env.VITE_CLOUDINARY_SECURE_DISTRIBUTION,
>   });
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Adding a Custom Domain"
---

> ## Configuring svelte-cloudinary with Private CDN and Custom Domain
> 
> Enhance the delivery and security of your media assets by integrating **svelte-cloudinary** with a private CDN and a custom domain. This configuration ensures that your assets are served securely through your own domain, providing better control and performance.
> 
> ## Prerequisites
> 
> :::note
> **Private CDN** and **Custom Domain** features are available exclusively on [Cloudinary's Advanced plan](https://cloudinary.com/pricing). Ensure your account is upgraded to access these functionalities.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enhance the delivery of your media assets by integrating svelte-cloudinary with a [private CDN and/or custom domain](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/advanced_url_delivery_options#private_cdns_and_custom_delivery_hostnames_cnames).

:::note
**Private CDN** and **Custom Domain** features are available exclusively on [Cloudinary's Advanced plan](https://cloudinary.com/pricing).
:::
```

## Step-by-Step Configuration

### 1. Install Dependencies

Ensure you have **svelte-cloudinary** installed in your project:

```bash
npm install svelte-cloudinary
```

### 2. Set Up Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in your project root (if it doesn't exist already) and add the following variables:

> ```plaintext
> VITE_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your_cloud_name
> VITE_CLOUDINARY_PRIVATE_CDN=true
> VITE_CLOUDINARY_SECURE_DISTRIBUTION=your-custom-domain.com
> ```
> 
> Replace `your_cloud_name` with your actual Cloudinary cloud name and `your-custom-domain.com` with your custom domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
VITE_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME="your_cloud_name"
VITE_CLOUDINARY_PRIVATE_CDN="true"
VITE_CLOUDINARY_SECURE_DISTRIBUTION="your-custom-domain.com"
```

Replace `your_cloud_name` with your actual [Cloudinary cloud name](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/finding_your_credentials_tutorial) and `your-custom-domain.com` with your custom domain. Read more about [configuring svelte-cloudinary here](https://svelte.cloudinary.dev/config).
```

:::caution
Never commit your `.env` file to version control. Add it to your `.gitignore` file to keep sensitive information secure.
:::

> 
> ### 3. Configure Cloudinary
> 
> Update your Cloudinary configuration to use these environment variables:
> 
> ```javascript
> import { configureCloudinary } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
> 
> export function setupCloudinary() {
>   configureCloudinary({
>     cloudName: import.meta.env.VITE_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
>     privateCdn: import.meta.env.VITE_CLOUDINARY_PRIVATE_CDN === 'true',
>     secureDistribution: import.meta.env.VITE_CLOUDINARY_SECURE_DISTRIBUTION,
>   });
> }
> ```
> 
> ### 4. Initialize Configuration in Your Application
> 
> Invoke the configuration setup in your main application file, such as the root `+layout.svelte` in SvelteKit:
> 
> ```svelte
> <script>
>   import { onMount } from 'svelte';
>   import { setupCloudinary } from '$lib/configureCloudinary';
> 
>   onMount(() => {
>     setupCloudinary();
>   });
> </script>
> 
> <slot />
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

These steps aren't needed, since we're using enviornment variables!

## Example Usage

With the configuration in place, use the `<CldImage />` component to serve images through your private CDN and custom domain:

```svelte
<script>
  import { CldImage } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
</script>

<CldImage

>   src="sample.jpg"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src="<Your Public ID>"
```
